[ACR-1541] Add widget service guide (#1338)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/native/guides/app-management/widget-service.md

# Widget Service

The Widget Service API provides functionality to get the information of installed widgets.

The main features of the Widget Service API include:

- Retrieving information of widgets

  You can [retrieve the information](#retrieve) of an installed widget application.

- Communicating with running widget instances

  You can [communicate](#communicate) with running widget instances.

> [!NOTE]

> > This API will works only if the widget and application are packaged together.

Reviewer: Slight grammatical correction 
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This API will work only if the widget and application are packaged together.

    ```

<a name="communicate"></a>
## Communicate with widget instances

Widget Service API provides functions to trigger the event that changes the state of the widget.

1. Triggers the update event for a given widget instance:

    ```cpp
    int ret;
    int force = 0;
    Bundle data;

    data = bundle_create();
    
    ret = widget_service_trigger_update("widget_id", "instance_id", data, force);
    ```

2. Changes the update period of the given widget instance:

    ```cpp
    int ret;

    ret = widget_service_change_period("widget_id", "instance_id", 1.0);
    ```

3. Gets and Sets the disabled state of a widget:

    ```cpp
    void _widget_disable_event_cb(const char *widget_id, bool is_disabled, void *user_data)
    {
    }
    ```
    ```cpp
    int ret;
    bool is_disabled = true;

    ret = widget_service_get_widget_disabled(SAMPLE_PKGNAME, &is_disabled);
    ret = widget_service_set_disable_event_cb(_widget_disable_event_cb, NULL);

    ret = widget_service_set_widget_disabled("widget_id", true);
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > 'widget_service_set_widget_disabled' is not for use by third-party applications.

## Related information
- Dependencies

>   - Tizen 2.4 and Higher for Mobile

Reviewer 2: @sukhyungkang, is the version info accurate? Seems like it is introduced on Wearable first and then on Mobile. Could you confirm?

Author: As I know, these versions are the lowest public versions. It's same as other old API sets

Reviewer 2: Thanks for confirming

# Widget Service

> 

Reviewer: Please remove this extra line space.

The Widget Service API provides functionality to get the information of installed widgets.

The main features of the Widget Service API include:

- Retrieving information of widgets

  You can [retrieve the information](#retrieve) of an installed widget application.

- Communicating with running widget instances

  You can [communicate](#communicate) with running widget instances.

> 

Reviewer: Please remove these extra line spaces.

> [!NOTE]
> This API will works only if the widget and application are packaged together.

> 

Reviewer: Please remove these extra line spaces.

# Widget Service

The Widget Service API provides functionality to get the information of installed widgets.

The main features of the Widget Service API include:

- Retrieving information of widgets

  You can [retrieve the information](#retrieve) of an installed widget application.

- Communicating with running widget instances

  You can [communicate](#communicate) with running widget instances.

> > [!NOTE]
> >
> > This API will works only if the widget and application are packaged together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
> [!NOTE]
>  Widget Service API works only if the widget and application are packaged together.
```
- There is no space between note & text 
- I have slightly modified sentence for correction in grammar.

    ```cpp
    char *id;
    int result;
    
    id = widget_service_get_widget_id("pkg_id");
    ```

<a name="communicate"></a>
## Communicate with widget instances

Widget Service API provides functions to trigger the event that changes the state of the widget.

1. Triggers the update event for a given widget instance:

    ```cpp
    int ret;
    int force = 0;
    Bundle data;

    data = bundle_create();
    
    ret = widget_service_trigger_update("widget_id", "instance_id", data, force);
    ```

2. Changes the update period of the given widget instance:

    ```cpp
    int ret;

    ret = widget_service_change_period("widget_id", "instance_id", 1.0);
    ```

3. Gets and Sets the disabled state of a widget:

    ```cpp
    void _widget_disable_event_cb(const char *widget_id, bool is_disabled, void *user_data)
    {
    }
    ```
    ```cpp
    int ret;
    bool is_disabled = true;

    ret = widget_service_get_widget_disabled(SAMPLE_PKGNAME, &is_disabled);
    ret = widget_service_set_disable_event_cb(_widget_disable_event_cb, NULL);

    ret = widget_service_set_widget_disabled("widget_id", true);
    ```

>     > [!NOTE]
>     >
>     > 'widget_service_set_widget_disabled' is not for use by third-party applications.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
    > [!NOTE]
    > 'widget_service_set_widget_disabled' is not for use by third-party applications.
```
We do not need the line space between the Note & text.

> ## Related Information

Reviewer: https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1338/commits/2ad2737ef5e28a08cd6e413a5b728c04d4b3a3a8#r520448279

Author: then do you think that's better to be changed?

# Widget Service

The Widget Service API provides functionality to get the information of installed widgets.

The main features of the Widget Service API include:

- Retrieving information of widgets

>   You can [retrieve the information](#retrieve) of a installed widget application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
  You can [retrieve the information](#retrieve) of an installed widget application.

- Communicating with running widget instances

  You can [communicate](#communicate) with running widget instances.

> **Note**
>
> This API will only works if the widget and application are packaged in one.

## Prerequisites

1.  To use the Widget Service API (in [mobile](../../api/mobile/latest/group__CAPI__WIDGET__SERVICE__MODULE.html) and [wearable](../../api/wearable/latest/group__CAPI__WIDGET__SERVICE__MODULE.html) applications), the application has to request permission by adding the following privilege to the `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

    ```
    <privileges>
       <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/widget.viewer</privilege>
    </privileges>
    ```

2.  To use the functions of the Widget Service API, include the `<widget_service.h>` header file in your application:

    ```
    #include <widget_service.h>
    ```

> <a name="retrieve"></a>

Reviewer: Is this needed?
Kindly remove the extra line spaces 38-40

Author: yes. it's for the link from line 10 "#retrieve"

> ## Retrive the information

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
## Retrieve the information

> Widget Service API provides functions to get various information of widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widget Service API provides functions to get information about various widget related properties.
```
Kindly check for accuracy, if the current modification is not conveying what it is intended to, please provide your valuable suggestion.

> 1. Gets the pixel size of given size type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
1. Gets the pixel size of the given size type.

Reviewer 2: @nawab-samsung,
Since there is code following the sentence, please suggest colon at the end of the sentences.
Please take this as a global comment.

Also the code language is not specified.

Reviewer: @annie-samsung sure, just that there is inconsistency with: in pages 
https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/blob/9e07e10892ce363ad77fb172d6094ae6fbf55481/docs/application/native/guides/app-management/data-bundles.md

But yes, I will suggest : as you rightly pointed out.

    ```
    int ret;
    int w;
    int h;

    ret = widget_service_get_size(WIDGET_SIZE_TYPE_2x2, &w, &h);
    ```

> 2. Gets the supported size list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
2. Gets the supported list of sizes.

>     ```

Reviewer: Global: 
Please specify the language identifier:

https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/blob/master/styleguide/style.md#inline-code-blocks-with-language-identifier

    int ret;
    int cnt = 20;
    int *w;
    int *h;

    ret = widget_service_get_supported_sizes("pkg_id", &cnt, &w, &h);
    ```

3. Gets the ID of a widget by the given ID of package or UI app.

    ```
    char *id;
    int result;
    
    id = widget_service_get_widget_id("pkg_id");
    ```

> <a name="communicate"></a>

Reviewer: Is this needed?

Author: do you mean  "<a name="communicate"></a>"?

Author: yes. it's for the link from line 14 "#communicate"

> <a name="communicate"></a>

Reviewer: Can we remove extra line spaces?

> ## Communicate

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, can we write this heading like this?
```suggestion 
## Communicate with widget instances

> Widget Service API provides functions to trigger the event to change the state of widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
Widget Service API provides functions to trigger the event that changes the state of the widget.

> 1. Triggers the update event for given widget instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
1. Triggers the update event for a given widget instance.

    ```
    int ret;
    int force = 0;
    Bundle data;

    data = bundle_create();
    
    ret = widget_service_trigger_update("widget_id", "instance_id", data, force);
    ```

2. Changes the update period of the given widget instance.

    ```
    int ret;

    ret = widget_service_change_period("widget_id", "instance_id", 1.0);
    ```

3. Gets and Sets the disabled state of a widget.

    ```
    void _widget_disable_event_cb(const char *widget_id, bool is_disabled, void *user_data)
    {
    }
    ```
    ```
    int ret;
    bool is_disabled = true;

    ret = widget_service_get_widget_disabled(SAMPLE_PKGNAME, &is_disabled);
    ret = widget_service_set_disable_event_cb(_widget_disable_event_cb, NULL);

    ret = widget_service_set_widget_disabled("widget_id", true);
    ```

    > **Note**
    >

>     > 'widget_service_set_widget_disabled' is not for use by third-party applications.

Reviewer: I had given comment on this for note particularly, I just assumed that author has kept it deliberately. 
Yes, I will update this as you say after the author responds to other query too.

> ## Related Information

Reviewer: Global: Kindly change heading to sentence case (whereever applicable)
```suggestion 
## Related information

Author: all other "Related Information" is upper case. I think it's better to do not change for consistency

Reviewer: @sukhyungkang you are right, but as we are reviewing the files, we are suggesting to change case;  from title case to sentence case. 
With time we will accomplish the sentence case style all over the existing pages.
